## SENG 321 Requirements Engineering Assessment of Class Participation

Your participation grade is ongoing and begins in Week 1. You will receive a final participation grade at the end of the course. Feedback on your own class participation will be provided course midterm upon request. You will be graded on your participation in class activities, including showing up on time, attending all classes, completing class activities, reports and presentations, and discussions. Class participation includes not only being present in class, but fully contributing by engaging in discussions, activities and readings in class and outside of class. Your contributions should make explicit links to course readings and concepts. Note: mere attendance to classes does  not guarantee any portion of the class participation grade.

Effective participation does not mean “speaking more or less” but rather focusing on the balance and quality (i.e. thoughtfulness and critical thinking) of contributions. Engaged students will be mindful of not monopolizing class discussions and group work. Reserved or quiet students will be mindful of taking risks and increasing their engagement in the class and in group work. The participation grade evaluates your participation; it does not evaluate you as a person. Students are not graded on their personality but rather on their ability to engage in the course is a comprehensive and professional manner. Your participation grade will be assessed based on the following 2 criteria: 

**Criteria 1: Critical Thinking** demonstrates your ability to integrate your own experiences and perspectives into the course content (readings, lectures, discussions, guest speakers, etc.). This involves providing thoughtful questions and comments that demonstrate that you have been doing the readings, and thinking critically about how it relates to your course project. The critical thinking criteria assesses your ability to engage with new ideas and material, and to integrate readings and course discussions into your work. It also includes your capacity to integrate constructive feedback into your learning. 

**Criteria 2: Effective communication and Involvement** means being fully ‘present’ in class, paying attention to class schedules, participating in activities and discussions, coming and leaving on time, attending all classes unless you have a valid excuse, and completing readings in an effective and timely manner. Effective involvement also includes your capacity to demonstrate readiness for professional engagement in the field. Professionalism means acting and dressing appropriately for professional meetings and work in agencies and with clients; and listening and responding respectfully to diverse viewpoints (seeking first to paraphrase other viewpoints before expressing your opinion, in a way that encourages respectful and open engagement). Communication with instructor, students and your software project clients is respectful and appropriate to the content and context. 
